So, after all this talk about closures and
execution contacts and
first class functions, your head
might be spinning a bit if this is
the first time you've ever
heard about these concepts.
But what if I told you that if you've
done any JavaScript programming,
even a little, you've probably
used these concepts at least once.
What if I told you that if you
use something like setTimeout or
jQuery events that you're
using closures all the time.
Let's talk for
a second about closures and callbacks.
Let's write a simple
function called sayHiLater.
And I'll create a greeting, Hi.
And then I'll use a built in
JavaScript function called setTimeout.
You may have used this before
when you wanted something to
happen after a few seconds of waiting.
setTimeout, and the setTimeout
that's built in to JavaScript
takes a function of what I want to
happen after the timer is done,
and then how many milliseconds it
should wait until that happens.
So, I'll just console.log(greeting).
See that?
Then, I'll call sayHiLater.
So, what's going to happen?
Well, I refresh and wait.
One.
Two.
Three.
And it logged it.
It waited 3000 milliseconds, that is
three seconds, and ran this function.
Do you realize that you are using
function expressions, closures right now?
You see,
setTimeout takes a function object.
You're passing it as a parameter, so
that's making use of first
class functions in JavaScript.
And we're creating
the function on the fly, so
I'm taking advantage of
a function expression.
So, I'm passing a function object and
another parameter the time to setTimeout.
Now, sayHiLater then finishes.
You may recall, early in this course we
talked about asynchronous processes and
the event loop.
Well, setTimeout goes off outside in
the browser, counts and waits and
then drops an event when this 3000
seconds has passed that says my timeout
has finished, and then the engine says,
are there any other functions listening?
And it finds one.
And so then, it runs this function.
But greeting doesn't exist
inside this function and
sayHiLater has already finished running.
So, what happens?
Exactly what we saw before.
It goes up the scope chain and
it has a closure for this variable.
It knows the memory space
where this was sitting
when sayHiLater was running
in its execution context.
So, thanks to the closure, it still has
access to greeting three seconds later,
even though a long time ago,
sayHiLater finished running.
This only takes milliseconds to run and
yet three seconds later,
it still has access when this function
is executed by the JavaScript engine.
So, if you've done any code like this,
and you have already used closures and
function expressions.
Same thing with jQuery.
For those of you that are web developers,
if you have done something like maybe you
had a button and then you had a click
event, and you gave it a what, a function.
This click is a function, and
inside the code in jQuery,
it accepts another function to
run when that event happens.
So, you used first class functions.
You passed it as a parameter, and
you're using a function expression to
declare your function, to set up or
to find your function at that point.
So, this is jQuery uses
function expressions and
first-class functions.
Now, I don't have jQuery referenced,
so I'll just comment this out.
Do you see what's happening?
All along, if you've done some jQuery or
some JavaScript programming,
at some point,
you've probably been taking advantage
of first-class functions and closures.
These functions that do something
after you run another function, giving
this function to another function and
having it execute when it's done,
is called a callback.
A callback function.
You are saying here, take this function,
and when you are done working,
call the function,
execute the function I just gave you.
It's a callback.
I executed you, and you in turn
execute this other function for
me when you're done.
So, big word alert.
A callback function, that's a function
you give to another function to be run
when the other function is finished.
So, you call a function,
that is you invoke it, you execute it, and
you give it your own function.
Then, that function calls back by calling
the function you gave it when it finishes.
So, I call function A,
and give it function B.
When function A finishes running,
it calls function B for me.
It calls back.
Thus the name, the callback function.
Let's build a function that
takes a callback real quick.
[SOUND] function tellMeWhenDone.
And, it accepts a callback.
And I'll literally just call it callback.
You could call it whatever you want.
And then,
let's say that it sets a variable.
[SOUND] And then when it's done,
I'll do another one just for fun.
[SOUND] This could be anything.
And then when it's done,
it's going to run the callback.
[SOUND] Let me call this
a couple of times.
I'll say tellMeWhenDone, and
I'll give it a callback function.
I'll tell it the function that I'm going
to give to it that it should execute.
So here, I'll say console.log, I am done.
And I can do this again, and
have a different callback function.
And in this case, I might say,
I'll console.log,
or actually, let's alert I am done.
In the browser,
the alert will pop up, so let's see.
Refresh, look at that.
I am done.
Or, I could change this to console.log.
All done.
Did you see what's happening?
Oh, and
that Hi popped from the setTimeout.
But these call back functions,
I gave it to this function.
So, I called this function that is
I invoked it and it called back.
It called, or executed, or
invoked the function I gave it.
I call you, then you call
the function that I gave you.
All right.
So, closures,
function expressions, callbacks,
these are things that you've
likely have some exposure to.
You use closures and
first-class functions all the time.
Let's move on.